There's one specific marketing strategy
that's been driving demos for us every
week at my company, Breaking B2B. And
I'm yet to find a more powerful strategy
for SAS companies, but it's not a single
channel. It's a trio of channels working
together. SEO and AI search, YouTube,
and LinkedIn with both founder brand and
paid ads. And if I just joined a B2B SAS
company as a CMO or marketing leader,
this is exactly what I triple down on.
So, in this video, I'm going to walk you
through each channel, explain exactly
how to execute across all three. I'll
explain why they all work so well
together, so you can follow along and
drive more pipeline and revenue for your
SAS company. Let's get into it.
So, here's how the deadly trio works.
So, first up, we've got SEO and AO
showing up at the top of Google's
organic search results and being
recommended in AI search when dream
clients are needing your solution. The
second is YouTube, building searchable
videos that build trust at scale. And
lastly, we've got LinkedIn, building a
founder or exec brand, as well as
amplifying those posts with paid ads.
And here's why these three work so well
together, especially for high ACV, high
average contract value solutions. First
off, if your SAS sells a solution that's
10K, 20K, 50K, 100K plus as an average
contract value, no one wakes up and
decides to invest that amount of cash
into a piece of software. There's a long
old process that goes on behind the
scenes. They're not making impulse
decisions off the bat. Your dream
clients will go almost for a process of
having a super expensive problem, maybe
trying to fix it in house, maybe getting
so frustrated that it doesn't work out,
then researching options, evaluating
options, and eventually deciding
together with their team which solution,
which brand, which company makes sense
to move forwards with. And as well as
this, there may well be a buying
committee involved or several
stakeholders that are going to be
involved in that buying process. And
these three channels allow you to hit
those dream clients at different points
in the buying process, building trust
throughout. And unlike classic paid
media that stops working the moment you
switch off, these three channels all
compound over time. The content that
you're going to build out can work for
you for months or even years to come.
You're building assets for your company.
You're not renting attention. And if
you're thinking long term with your
marketing strategy, this is going to be
a solid bet. So let's dive into how you
can run each channel successfully. So,
first up, let's start with SEO and AAO
because this is going to be building out
the foundation. And the crux of it is to
show up top of Google organic search and
be recommended on AI search and LLMs
when dream clients need your solution.
Now, this could be when they're
comparing options, when they directly
need your software or category type now,
when they're looking for a specific
solution for an industry or vertical
that they're within, when they may be
frustrated with the incumbent vendor, or
they're looking to solve a crisp and
specific problem. SEO and AI search
should always start from a demand
collection perspective. What are my
dream clients looking for? Not when
they're information gathering, but when
they're actually ready to speak to
sales, grab a sign up, or grab a demo.
And at this stage, you might be
thinking, Sam, isn't SEO dead? I mean,
didn't AI search and LLM optimization
completely take over? Does anyone even
use Google search anymore? Well,
according to a report from Datas and
Spark Toro, Google still gets 373 times
more searches compared to Chat GBT, all
the AI tools combined. Still make up
around 2% of the search market. So SEO
isn't dead. The game has simply changed.
Now we want to show up in LLMs and AI
search as well as classic Google organic
results. But the good news is before you
panic, we've got around 40 active B2B
SAS clients at breaking B2B and solid
bottomfunnel pipeline focused SEO
carries through to getting visibility on
AI search in LLM with a few tweaks here
and there. So let's dive into what's
working today. So a good way to think
about SEO and AI search now, especially
if like we were talking about earlier,
you're selling solutions that are
reasonably high ticket 10K, 20K, 50K,
100K plus annual contracts. often times
now it's about getting in the
consideration set. If there's multiple
folks, multiple stakeholders involved in
that process, it's not going to be a one
and done. It's not an impulse buy.
There's a bunch of things that are going
to happen behind the scenes when it
comes to them researching, evaluating,
and eventually pulling the trigger and
investing in a SAS like yours. So, a big
part of the SEO and area search work is
getting your company, your brand into
the consideration set. When they have
that sales intent, you've probably heard
of the 955 rule. We want to go after
those folks that are in that 5% that are
in market right now for a solution like
yours. And we really want to control
that narrative whenever a target
prospect is doing any kind of research
or evaluation around our solution niche
or category. And like many things with
solid SAS marketing, it all starts with
the buyer with your dream client and
customer research. So in this instance
for SEO and AO, what is my dream client
looking for when they're in market? So,
I recommend following a process called
mapping out your money keywords. This is
every way a target prospect could search
for your solution when they're in buying
mode. So, in SAS, some of the common
money keywords around this could be
bestex software, best x tools, bestex
platforms. It could be competitor
alternative, competitor pricing,
competitor reviews. It could be best x
software for industry or use case or
ICP. There could also be more vertical
focused, industry focused, or even
integrationbased money keywords that
your dream clients could look for when
they're evaluating solutions like yours.
And you can use a tool like Hrefs where
you can actually map out the difficulty
of these money keywords. The lower the
better. But what you'll often find is
that these bottomfunnel pipeline driving
money keywords will often have
relatively low search volume, especially
if you're doing competitor alternative,
competitor one versus competitor 2
versus you, or competitor pricing or
those kind of competition based money
keywords. Those ones will often have
quite a low search volume but super high
buying intent. Folks aren't searching
this for fun. They're searching it
because they're genuinely in market
looking to move away from the incumbent
or evaluating options like yours. they
have a high chance to drive signups,
sales calls or demos. And we've seen
this type of competitor content rank as
quick as days. I'm not talking months,
years. I'm talking days from being
published on SAS websites. And then when
you look at more competitive money
keywords, for example, best x software
or best x platforms or best x software
for a specific niche or category, those
ones tend to have more search volume.
They tend to be a little bit more
difficult to rank. So, usually you'll
have to build a best-in-class page, then
perhaps earn some back links, maybe earn
some brand mentions, and that's going to
be usually a slower burner, and those
can take several months to rank
effectively on Google organic search and
start being cited in AI search and LLMs.
And as a quick example, if I do a Google
search for warmly alternatives, I can
see our client RB2 mentioned in the
Google AI overviews and also the top
organic result here. And this is exactly
what I was talking about. The crux to
this is working out what type of page
ranks effectively for the money keyword.
So in this case, warmly alternatives.
They tend to be what we call a
listicalbased article. So we evaluate
the seven best warmly alternatives of
2026. And usually these are structured
as an article-based listical. You
normally have the author, the publish
date, you have your H1 with your money
keyword. You do a quick intro into what
the topic's about, why you should
consider alternatives, maybe leverage
some intel from platforms like G2 or
relevant review sites. So why folks look
to switch from the competitor, in this
case, why folks tend to get frustrated
or switch from warmly. Then you
generally do a table of the options. We
position ourselves RB to be number one.
But we don't just shout about how
awesome and how great we are. We
leverage real customer insights and
feedback. Why folks are choosing us,
features they care about, show a
screenshot visuals of our product in
action, maybe even a GIF of when our
product clicks into play for RB2B. So
RB2B is visitor identification software
at the actual visitor level with the
option to view company as well. So in
this case, you might even show a gift of
when the visitor hits your website and
that pings through to Slack to your
sales team and that awesome moment where
they can see exactly who's been on your
website, what money pages they've
visited, and then they can outreach to
them. So you have your features, you
break down the pricing, you show the
pros, where it's a great fit, cons where
it's not such a good fit, and then a
fair comparison of the other options on
the market. And another example here on
chat GPT, I've done it in a more
conversational manner. So show me the
best lead feeder alternatives for my
SAS. And then we can see our client RB2
recommended here. And the nice thing
here is what's being cited is our own
list. So you'll see it's actually
pulling from our own article. We're
really controlling the narrative by
building these money pages on our
website. But once we know the money
keywords, build best-in-class money
pages that are actually likely to get
cited, help control the narrative, help
build brand, help get us into the
consideration set and drive inbounds for
our SAS. So in this case, a very similar
process to the warmly one we just walked
through the top 11 lead feeder
alternatives. And then a similar thing
here for our own context, but instead of
going after competition or competitor
based money keywords here, I've done a
more general one. So for us, best SAS
SEO agencies. You can see in the Google
AI overview, we're suggested here,
breaking B2B. And then also in the
organic results, we're number one right
now. And likewise, if I go to chat GBT,
a more conversational search like, show
me the best SEO agencies for my SAS.
Again, we're recommended. We get a brand
mentioned here. But the great thing is
it's actually pulling from our own
listical, our own listical article. So
if I click into that, again, a similar
process for these. So ours is here's the
11 best SAS SEO agencies to drive
revenue for business. And you can see
that money keywords in the H1. Got a
quick summary. Again, those quick
summaries and intros can be pulled into
AI search tools. We do a table comparing
everything. Why listen to us with some
social proof, a nice client review, then
jump into the top 11 agencies, position
ourselves as number one, but share why
folks choose us, how we're different,
how we stand out in the marketplace, a
nice screenshot, and then a video
actually breaking down our process.
YouTube video embed, where we're a good
fit, we're not, and then a fair
comparison again of all the other
options that are available. A big piece
of SEO and AI search is about working
out one what your money keywords are.
What dream clients search when they need
your solution right now. Secondly, make
it easy for yourself. See what type of
content the LLM or Google organic is
already using already ranking or being
cited. Then simply look to really
control that narrative by building out
all these pages on your website, putting
multiple lines in the water so you can
rank on Google organic search, get
pulled up in Google AI overviews, and
start to get mentioned in AI searches on
chat GBT and similar. So your brand can
be recommended. But not only that, your
actual content can be pulled. So you're
building out all these money sass pages
on your website, industry pages,
vertical pages, blog articles, best of
listicles, competitor listicles, maybe
versus landing pages, pricing, review
guides, and much more. Looking at what's
already ranking on Google organic and
chat GBT, and then completely blowing
out the water, making your page more
helpful, more useful, following Google's
framework, EAT, experience, expertise,
authority, and trust. And of course,
making sure that you position your
solution or your software as that
painkiller with plenty of social proof,
examples of your product in action and
leveraging customer research and insight
so you can really show in your copy and
your content that you're resonating with
your dream clients problems, goals, jobs
to be done, and motivations. And then
make it nice and easy with clear call to
action so folks can easily take that
next step, whether that's signing up for
your product, grabbing a demo, or
grabbing a sales call. So once you've
controlled the narrative on your own
site, a big thing is getting featured in
niche relevant sites, getting that brand
mention. And one fairly simple way to
work out what to do here is look at the
websites that keep getting cited for
your money prompts, your money keywords.
In this case for RB2B, they're already
mentioned for best lead alternatives for
my SAS. I can also see that lead feeder,
I've got an article that's pulled from
here. I can see lead info, I've got one
that's evaluating alternatives. And I
can see factors AI, I've got one as
well. And a simple way to do this on
chat GBT is you can click the sources
tab. You can see all the articles in
this case listicles that are pulled from
and you can make a process to manually
reach out to these folks. You can see
who the author is of the content.
Perhaps you reach out to them on
LinkedIn or relevant channel. You do
some kind of pattern interrupt outreach.
So maybe you send them a customized
Loom. Maybe you offer them a value
exchange like maybe you can get them a
placement on your article in return for
them mentioning you as a top three
placement within theirs with your brand
mentioned and a nice backlink. or
perhaps you offer them some kind of
other value exchange, whether that is
guesting on your podcast, some kind of
interview, or something else that could
be of both value to them as well as
yourself. By the way, if you want help
executing this entire strategy for your
SAS company, book a call with me today
over at breakingb2b.com. Our SAS clients
typically see leads, signups, pipeline,
and demos flowing within 90 days of
working with us for their SEO and AO.
Grab a call with me over at breaking
B2B.com or hit the link in the
description below. Right, back to the
video. Now, it's time for the second
channel of the Deadly Trio. It's
YouTube. And to be crystal clear here,
I'm not talking about throwing old
company webinars up onto the company
YouTube and hoping for the best. This is
all about crafting searchable videos
that share every aspect of your process,
playbooks, and more, as well as giving
away your strategies and the problems
that you're solving for dream clients.
But why bother? Well, it's the second
largest search engine after Google.
Watching someone on video builds another
layer of trust that written content
really struggles to match. Prospects are
able to put a face to the name, to the
brand, to the company. They can see you
more and more. They understand your
thinking and how you approach things.
And just like SEO and AI search, it
compounds over time. So videos can drive
views and inbound leads not just now,
but for months and years to come. So
here's how you can make YouTube work for
your SAS. You've got to go in with a
YouTube first approach. That means solid
packaging, thumbnails, titles,
scripting, and much more. A strong hook
to get your dream clients enticed to
watch the whole video. A clear story,
good pacing, and obvious call to actions
on the next step you want folks to take.
And you need to stay painfully focused
on your dream clients, not trying to get
views from anyone and everyone. And just
like SEO and AI search, we're not
chasing vanity metrics. We don't want to
go after tons and tons of traffic from
anyone and everyone. We'd much rather a
few hundred views from absolute perfect
fit customers with that intent instead
of hundreds of thousand views from folks
that will never ever become a customer.
And in order to make this content
actually work, I recommend giving away
so much value that your dream client
could just watch this and then be able
to know how to do it in house. Or of
course, the perfect outcome is then they
trust you so much, they trust your
brand, that you're the brand of choice
they're going to go to to deliver for
them or use your software. And you've
got to go into it with a mindset that
either outcome is absolutely fine.
There'll always be people that will try
and go the cheaper route, try and do
something internally, try and get it
done with their own systems. And most of
the time, they weren't going to be a
great fit client for you anyway. You
want to go after those folks that have
that expensive problem you solve, are
motivated to solve it, and are looking
for trusted solution that can get the
job done. And that's why if you go
through my YouTube channel or podcast,
you'll see us sharing all of our
playbooks, strategies, case studies,
walkthroughs, experiments across SEO and
AAO for B2B SAS. I don't hold anything
back. And that's a big piece of the
puzzle for making it work. And here's a
quick bonus. Your YouTube videos can
actually help your SEO program, too. So,
we'll often embed relevant YouTube
videos onto articles, list of cool
pages, landing pages, and much more. Not
only do they seem to help your organic
results, but they can also get pulled up
in Google's video section. And sometimes
you get a little thumbnail next to your
Google organic search result. So, it can
improve your click-through rates. It can
improve engagement time. So, when folks
land on these pages or articles, they
might click through your video, watch
several minutes or watch the whole
thing, and then build that extra layer
of trust or maybe even then click
through to your YouTube channel, consume
way more content, so then they'll be way
more likely to look at and evaluate your
SAS. Plus, YouTube's often picked up in
AI search results and LLMs, too. And the
last part of the deadly trio, it's
LinkedIn organic founder brand or exec
brand and paid. So, LinkedIn has two
parts to it. Organic posting from your
founder or execs on your team onto
LinkedIn, as well as paid amplification
of those posts, either retargeting
website visitor ICPs, as well as going
after cold ICP, cold ideal client
profile lists. This channel is going to
work best if you've got a thought leader
on your team, be it your founder, an
exec, yourself, that's ideally already
got a network full of dream clients or
idol client profiles, got several
thousand connections or similar. And if
not, of course, you can build that up
over time. LinkedIn allows you to
connect to 100 or so folks each and
every week. So, with a tool like Sales
Navigator, you can simply search for
folks that fit that dream client profile
and connect with them over time,
building up your network. But the main
goal here from organic posting is to
become a trusted voice for your ICP in
your niche. So when your target
prospects have the problem you solve or
need your solution or folks are asking
about your solution or looking for
recommendations, your brand, your SAS
company is the one that instantly comes
to mind that gets recommended or gets
considered or gets chosen. So this is
usually posting each day organically to
LinkedIn. It could be industry tips. It
could be breakdowns. It could be
revealing your strategies. It could be
memes around your industry. It could be
industry news. It could be video skits.
It could be podcast clips or so much
more. I'm a big fan of edutainment. So,
getting attention from ICP first, then
linking it back to our solution. So, I
tend to do a bunch of memes, videos,
skits, as well as detailed breakdowns
about some of the clients and companies
that we work with, literally leaking the
full playbook and strategy, so folks
could even copy themselves or trust us
so much they come to our brand. And this
is all about staying top of mind with
your ICPS when they're not in market.
So, like I say, when they have that
problem to solve, when they're
evaluating vendors, when someone else
needs a recommendation, anything along
those lines, you and your brand are the
one that straight away comes to mind,
and they either go to you to grab a
demo, sign up to your software, or
recommend you to appear. And then once
you, an exec on your team or your
founder, has got that organic playbook
running. They're posting consistently.
They're building their network. They're
also, I should add, engaging with other
folks in your niche, whether that is
dream clients, maybe similar companies,
maybe other folks that your ICPs follow
and get trusted info from. And once
you've got that organic playbook
rolling, that's when you want to look to
amplify these posts with paid. This is
all about taking some of your top
organic posts. So, it could be social
proof posts, case studies, reviews, or
similar. It could be breakdowns. It
could be strategies. It could be
edertainment ones like memes or skits or
videos. And as well as your own posts,
it could also be clients or partners
that have posted about you and your
company and you can sponsor those too.
And then you can run them as thought
leader ads to two audiences. So firstly,
you can retarget your own website
visitors, the folks that have already
shown interest in your offer. And
secondly, you can serve these to a cold
list of your ICPs. I recommend making it
as tight as possible for those dream
clients and accounts you want to break
into. And this playbook is working super
well for us right now at breaking B2B.
And I know a bunch of other SAS
marketing leaders running a very similar
playbook, too. Right now, we spend
around 2 to 3K USD per month on the ads.
And the main thing here is that a lot of
folks in the B2B space, as long as you
know your dream clients are hanging out
on LinkedIn, it's going to make sense.
So, it's been really powerful for us to
stay top of mind with folks in the
pipeline, retarget those website
visitors, stay top of mind, and build
trust. And thirdly, to get the attention
of those net new cold prospects over
time, building trust and brand equity
for our company. And if we take a look
at some of our own recent booked calls,
we can see folks mentioning these
channels. And most of the time, folks
that come inbound to us at Breaking B2B
will mention LinkedIn as part of that
journey. And let's wrap up by talking
about how the deadly trio works
together. So now you understand how each
channel works individually, but the real
magic happens when they all work
together in sync. So here's exactly how
the flywheel starts spinning. So someone
might search for a crisp and expensive
problem you solve. Maybe they're looking
directly for the solution itself or
maybe evaluating vendors, be it on
Google, chat GBT or an AI tool. Your
page or content might show up. Your
brand might be recommended. Maybe they
flick through to one of your site pages.
Maybe they then watch a YouTube video.
They might then leave your website
without converting, but perhaps they
flag up your brand to an exec member in
Slack or the rest of their team mention
it at the next company meeting. They've
now been added to your retargeting pool.
So over the next few weeks, they're
going to be seeing your LinkedIn thought
leadership ads. Then they might start
following you or your exec or your
founder and then consistently see the
organic post as well as the sponsored
thought leader ads. Perhaps they then
head to YouTube and then search for a
niche related topic, see one of your
videos top, watch the whole thing, and
then really believe that your brand is
the one that they should trust to solve
their problem. And then maybe for final
piece of mind after this whole process,
they've maybe had a few chats with their
exact team. They then do another
comparison on Google or Chat GBT of you
versus another brand versus the final
brand they had on their selection list.
They're then clear on your
differentiators. They've watched a bunch
of your videos. They've seen your
founder or execs posting organic on
LinkedIn and strongly believe that your
offer is the right fit for them. You're
the obvious choice, so they sign up to
your software, grab a demo, or book a
call with sales. And as I say, this
deadly trio is especially powerful for
high ACV offers. Deals with multiple
stakeholders do not close after one
touch. You need to keep showing up in
the places that your dream clients are
getting trusted information from. All
throughout the process, from research to
consideration to evaluation and beyond.
And all three channels really complement
each other. SEO and AI search to get you
in that consideration set and also at
the end capture demand. YouTube to build
that extra layer of trust that's
unrivaled with video. And LinkedIn to
constantly keep you top of mind. And if
you've been on LinkedIn for a while,
just like I have, you've probably seen
the organic reach keeps tanking. The
organic reach keeps dropping over time.
And that's why this deadly trio becomes
more and more important for SAS
companies. You're building own media
assets that you can actually control.
You're not at the mercy of an algorithm.
and you're really building out a content
engine and flywheel that's going to
compound over time. So, if you want help
building the foundational layer of this
deadly trio for your SEO and AI search,
grab a call with me over at
breakingb.com or hit the link in the
description below and we can chat
through and see if we're a good fit.
Most SAS companies we work with see
pipeline flowing as quick as 90 days. Or
if you're not quite ready, why not grab
my 90 days torevenue SEO playbook and
video course. Head over to
breakingb2b.com and hit that newsletter
tab or check out the breaking B2B
podcast for weekly episodes to grow your
SAS.